In our discussion
of labeling data,
let's take a look at data and
concept change in production ML.
We're going to be
talking about detecting
problems with deployed models.
Really that focuses
on two things,
data change and concept
change or world change.
There's different kinds of this.
We've talked about a
little bit of this,
we'll get into it some more.
There are different kinds
of changing ground truth.
There's easy problems,
there's harder problems,
and then you get really
hard problems and you need
different approaches to deal
with these. Let's look at them.
Detecting problems
with deployed models,
you can look at the
data and the scope of
the data and the world in a
couple of different ways,
but fundamentally, you need to
monitor your models
and you need to
validate the results
and the data of
your models to find problems.
You want to try to find problems
early especially with
system problems that
happen quickly like a bad sensor
or things like that,
that we've discussed.
But a fundamental issue
is changing ground truth.
What that means is
that you need to label
new data over the life
of your application.
It depends on really
the domain that you're
working in and the kinds of
problems that you're trying
to solve as far as what
approaches are really
feasible for doing that.
There are easy problems.
Things like, trying to recognize
images of cats and dogs.
In this case, the ground truth
really changes pretty slowly.
Model retraining in those cases
is usually driven by
model improvements,
you are better at
recognizing cats or dogs,
or whatever it is
that you're doing.
You could have changes
in software too.
You could be upgrading
things or using a
different library,
that kind of thing, or systems.
Labeling in this case
is fairly simple,
you're going to work with maybe a
curated dataset that you're
getting from some
public domain source or
a source that your organization
has been using for
awhile or you could look
at crowd-based as well.
If it tends to be fairly
simple, things like feedback,
of course, if you have those
available, great, use them.
Use what you can.
Then we get into a
little harder problems
where the ground truth
really changes faster.
Things like styles.
We looked at shoes,
but there's a lot of
things where styles.
The world changes on a
matter of maybe weeks,
that kind of thing.
Model retraining in
that case is usually
driven by declining
model performance,
which you need to measure if
you're going to be aware of.
You can also have
model improvements,
you can also have better
data and of course,
the software and systems you're
running on can also change.
But as these things get harder,
you get more things and
declining model performance
is one of those.
Labeling in this case,
if you can do direct
feedback either from
your systems or from your
users, that's great.
Crowd-based human labeling is
another feasible
way of doing this,
since you do have probably
weeks to respond.
You can take a pass through
human raters to do that.
Really hard problems though,
it becomes well, really hard.
In this case, ground
truth changes very fast,
like on order of days or
hours or even minutes.
Things like markets really
fall into this category,
they change very quickly.
In this case, declining
model performance
is definitely going to be
a driver for when you need
to retrain your model.
You can also have things like
model improvements and changes
in software and so forth,
but those tend to be things
that you'll be working on
offline while you're keeping
your application running.
It's really model performance
where you really need
well-defined processes to
deal with those changes.
Labeling in this case
becomes very challenging.
Direct feedback is great if
you can do it in your domain.
If not, you need to
look at things like
week supervision that
we'll talk about.
But it's really challenging
in these kinds of domains.
They tend to be
high-value domains.
Things like predicting
markets where there's
significant incentive to
doing these predictions.
The key points of what
we're talking about here,
model performance
decays over time.
It may decay slowly over time,
in things like cats and dogs,
that doesn't change very quickly,
or it may change very
fast, things like markets.
Model retraining will help you
improve or maintain
your performance.
Certainly as your model
performance decays,
it'll help you do that.
Data labeling, assuming you're
doing supervised learning,
which is pretty common,
data labeling is a
key part of that.
You really need to think
about how you're
going to approach
that in your particular problem,
in your particular
domain and with
the systems that you
have available to you.